# DSCI/LIB 350M (Winter 2025) Human Research Data Management

Course Description: This course provides students with theoretical and practical experience in collecting, processing, archiving, and publishing humanities data (images, video, sound, text, maps, etc.) gathered from galleries, libraries, archives, and museums (GLAMs). With the goal of building thematic digital collections as researchers, students will learn digital methodologies focusing on the technical, legal, ethical, and social aspects of working with humanities research data throughout its curation lifecycle. This includes hands-on experience finding, assessing, organizing, and reformatting data; creating and remediating descriptive metadata; evaluating and determining copyright and licensing; writing a data management plan using the standards set by the National Endowment for the Humanities, and sharing thematic research digital collections using GitHub and the open-source platform CollectionBuilder.

Georgia Barrus is the GitHub Manager, and therefore was incharge of creating the repository. Our website URL is https://gbarrus.github.io/logging-oregon/. 

Our collection is titled: Oregon Lumber described as: This is a collection of photographs, newspaper articles, and artworks that express how logging has affected communities in Oregon. Some communities of note are logging workers, Indigenous tribes and local Oregonians. Each of these groups are impacted by the environmental, physical, and economic tolls of logging. Viewers of our collection will be immersed into a new perspective of historical documents that show how the lumber industry has shaped Oregon and its residents. Groups that may find this collection particularly interesting are conservationists, historians, and people affected by the logging across Oregon. These groups may use it for research papers, or to learn more about the state's history. The contents of this collection comes from Oregon Digital, University of Oregon’s Oregon Digital Newspaper Program, Oregon Public Broadcasting, and the World Forestry Center.

To view our Data Management Plan page, access it here: https://gbarrus.github.io/logging-oregon/dmp.html
Our DMP consists of a description of our role responsibilities identifying our Project Manager as Eva Andrews, Github Manager as Georgia Barrus, and COllections Manager as Cora Stevens. Our data consists of PDFs, JPEGs, PNGs, and  MP4. Additionally, This digital collection will be kept  from January 2025 to June 2027, when the youngest member of our group graduates from the University of Oregon and loses access to our drive. For Data Storage and Preservation of Access our project will be saved to Zenodo, as it will allow our data to be safely stored for the future. This will ensure that our google document is also stored with our GitHub repository data. 
